---
layout: page
title: EE 567
permalink: /ee567/
---

## EE 567 - Power Electronics with Professor Yao

Professor Yao’s course on power electronics gave me a very thorough introduction to the field and included 
many interesting applications to exciting fields like electric vehicle design. Going into this course, I 
wasn’t even sure what power electronics were. Coming out of this course, I was very confident in 
understanding the topologies of different DC/DC converters, DC/AC inverters, and AC/DC rectifiers. 
Professor Yao’s lectures were clear and meticulous. I never felt like there was information I needed to 
memorize - instead, I felt like I was gaining a deep understanding in the design of various power 
electronics circuits, which made adapting the principles to different designs simple. I appreciated 
Professor Yao’s down-to-earth way of conveying information. Although we certainly covered a great deal of 
theory, she made it clear how the theory related to applications that were common in real life. For example, 
when discussing transformers, I learned about the implications of the material choice, size, cost, and 
physical shape of inductors, rather than a mere abstraction. I also had an opportunity to become very 
familiar with reading data sheets and selecting the appropriate components, which is an essential part of 
any engineering job. I found Professor Yao’s passion for engineering infectious.
 
We also covered some methods of control, like pulse width modulation. These methods are useful not only in 
power electronics but also in other applications where a motor must be controlled or the brightness of a 
light modulation. I believe that exposure to these methods of control will be useful in a career involving 
microcontrollers. 
 
An essential component of this course was the use of MATLAB and Simulink to design and simulate power 
electronic circuits. This was my first exposure to Simulink, but I had the opportunity to practice a lot in 
the homework. Most homeworks involved the design of different power electronic circuits in Simulink. I 
needed to consult with the TA and official MATLAB documentation often to determine which components were 
appropriate to use in my simulations. I think that if I used Simulink regularly I would get used to this, 
but I found the variety of similar components to be confusing and I felt like building the simulation took 
much longer than doing the calculations. This experience made me suspect that I would prefer a job that 
doesn’t use Simulink, which is good for me to know.
 
In the final project, I worked with a partner to design a traction drive for an electric vehicle. The 
traction drive consisted of a battery, a DC/DC boost converter, a DC/AC inverter, and a motor. We needed to 
determine parameters for the boost converter and inverter to operate under varying conditions. We also 
simulated the output of the inverter, which was controlled by PWM. A screenshot and overview of the 
simulation is described here: [Link to simulation schematic and parameter calculation.] We typeset a report 
of the process in LaTeX. This project involved working closely with just one other student, which I find 
easier than working in a larger team. I feel like we both had a very complete understanding of the entire 
process as opposed to specializing in different chunks, so we were able to communicate well and come to an 
agreement about the necessary parameters.

![](../..//power_electronics_sim.JPG) \
*Figure 1 - Traction drive schematic [1]* 

I ended the course with the impression that I had gained a thorough understanding of power electronics and 
an appreciation for their ubiquity in modern devices.

### Citations

[1] E. Calle, A. Hyland. "Design of Traction Drive for an Electric Vehicle" EE 5673, University at Buffalo, 2022.
