---
layout: page
title: EE 620
permalink: /ee620/
---

## EE 620 - MIMO Wireless Communications with Professor Su

This course was a continuation of a typical communications class. Instead of single-input, single-output 
(SISO) transmission, we focused exclusively on multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO). The syllabus for this 
course was intimidating. Professor Su told us that many of his graduate students were initially frightened 
by the topic because the math looked too complicated! He also said that this appearance of complexity was 
the reason why MIMO systems had come into wide use only recently. However, he assured us the course would 
break the topic down into manageable parts and we would see that it wasn’t that complicated after all. 
The reason why modeling MIMO systems seems so difficult is that describing transmission between multiple 
inputs and multiple outputs requires a lot of equations.   Luckily, almost all of these equations can be 
handled using ordinary linear algebra. We analyzed the performance of MIMO systems and learned what their 
advantages are over SISO systems (improved bandwidth and lower bit error rate). We also discussed methods of 
space-time coding, which exploits the multiple transmitting antennas to improve reliability, and modulation 
schemes.
 
During class, Professor Su continually emphasized that the theorems he presented had real-world 
consequences. He introduced little exercises in class to make sure that we weren’t getting lost in theory 
and were able to see the applications to mobile or WiFi networks. These exercises often involved calculating 
the signal range, the bit error rate, or the data rate of MIMO systems so we could see the advantages of 
different schemes. Professor Su also made sure to highlight how MIMO techniques appear in the current IEEE 
standards and how they have developed over the past few decades. The final project for the course was not a 
technical project, but an essay analyzing how MIMO systems were incorporated into the current IEEE standards 
for 5g and WiFi.

<hr>

![](../../ee_report.png) \

<hr>

*Figure 1 - Final report [1]*
 
The homework assignments in this course relied heavily on MATLAB. Although I had used MATLAB a little bit in 
the past, I needed to improve my skills a lot in order to succeed in this course. The strength of MATLAB is 
in matrix manipulations, but I had never used it for matrix computations before. However, MIMO systems, due 
to their nature, are represented by matrices, so MATLAB is suited well to handle these kinds of simulations. 
The first homework assignment, for example, required simulating a Rayleigh fading channel. I spent a long 
time reading documentation online in order to figure out how to write the simulation. Ultimately, the 
homework assignments contributed not only to my understanding of MIMO systems, but also to my understanding 
of MATLAB. [Link to code snippet] I was able to apply this understanding to a later project in EE 516 
(Introduction to Digital Signal Processing).
 
Although I will probably not pursue a career in telecommunications, this course did interest me in the 
topic. As wirelessly-connected devices become ubiquitous, a good understanding of exactly how standards like 
WiFi, Bluetooth, and 5g actually operate is useful. As I plan to work on embedded devices, some of which may 
have wireless connectivity, I feel that this course was valuable. If I did want to work in 
telecommunications, this course would be absolutely essential.

### Citations

[1] A. Hyland. "MIMO Technology in Modern Wireless Standards" EE 620, University at Buffalo, 2023.
